>> Sreenivasan: ONE YEAR AGO
TODAY, OUR TOP STORY WAS THE
FAILED COUP ATTEMPT IN TURKEY BY
RENEGADE SOLDIERS TRYING TO
TOPPLE PRESIDENT RECEP TAYYIP
ERDOGAN.
SINCE HIS SECURITY FORCES
STOPPED THE COUP, ERDOGAN HAS
CRACKED DOWN ON PERCEIVED
OPPONENTS, WITH TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF CIVIL SERVANTS
LOSING THEIR JOBS OR GOING TO
JAIL.
TODAY, HIS GOVERNMENT FIRED
7,000 MORE AS ERDOGAN ATTENDED A
"NATIONAL UNITY" MARCH IN THE
CAPITAL OF ANKARA AND UNVEILED A
MEMORIAL TO 250 TURKS WHO DIED
IN THE COUP.
IN THE PAST YEAR, ERDOGAN
OFFICIALLY EXPANDED HIS
EXECUTIVE POWERS IN A REFERENDUM
APPROVED BY A MAJORITY OF
VOTERS.
SONER CAGAPTAY, FROM THE
WASHINGTON INSTITUTE FOR NEAR
EAST POLICY, HAS WRITTEN A NEW
BOOK CALLED "THE NEW SULTAN:
ERDOGAN AND THE CRISIS OF MODERN
TURKEY."
HE JOINS ME NOW FROM WASHINGTON.
SO, IN THIS ONE-YEAR PERIOD,
WHAT'S HAPPENED TO TURKEY?
>> TURKEY HAS ACTUALLY NOT
BECOME MORE DEMOCRATIC,
UNFORTUNATELY.
ALTHOUGH THE COUP WAS PREVENTED,
IT HAS BECOME MORE AUTHORITARIAN
AND LESS DEMOCRATIC, AND THAT IS
PRIMARILY BECAUSE INITIALLY
GOING AFTER COUP PLOTTERS,
PRESIDENT ERDOGAN HAS THEN USED
THE POST-COUP POWERS, STATE OF
EMERGENCY, GIVEN TO HIM TO GO
AFTER HIS OTHER OPPONENTS.
TURKEY IS AN EXTREMELY POLARIZED
PLACE, WITH HALF OF THE COUNTRY
ADORING ERDOGAN, AND THE OTHER
HALF OF THE COUNTRY THAT
BASICALLY LOATHES HIM.
AND ERDOGAN HAS TARGETED
ANYONE IN THAT GROUP THAT
LOATHES HIM.
THAT NOT ONLY INCLUDES MEMBERS
OF THE GULEN MOVEMENT, WHO
ERDOGAN BELIEVES IS ALIGNED
WITH THE COUP EFFORT, BUT ALSO
LIBERALS, LEFTISTS AND KURDISH
NATIONALISTS.
>> Sreenivasan: ERDOGAN WILL
SAY, "LISTEN, I'M IN A... I'M
IN A ROUGH NEIGHBORHOOD.
THERE ARE PEOPLE ALL... IN PARTS
OF MY COUNTRY THAT WANT TO SPLIT
OFF AND BREAK OFF.
I'VE HAD TERRORIST ATTACK
HAPPENING ON MY OWN SOIL.
I NEED THIS POWER, I NEED IT
CONSOLIDATED."
AND HE'S... THAT MESSAGE HAS
SUNK IN WITH HIS SUPPORTERS.
>> IT HAS.
AND OF COURSE, ERDOGAN HAS A
BRIGHT SIDE, AS WELL-- THAT HE
HAS DELIVERED ECONOMIC GROWTH,
WHICH IS WHY THE CONSERVATIVES
HAVE BANDED AROUND HIM.
BUT HE ALSO HAS A DARK SIDE,
WHICH IS THAT HE HAS CRACKED
DOWN ON OPPOSTION AND ERODED
DEMOCRATIC CHECKS AND BALANCES.
THE PROBLEM IS, WHILE HALF OF
THE COUNTRY LOVES HIM, THE OTHER
HALF OF THE COUNTRY THAT
DESPISES HIM WILL NEVER FOLD
UNDER HIM.
AND THE RISK FOR ERDOGAN IS THAT
HE KNOWS, AS I EXPLAINED IN "THE
NEW SULTAN," HE KNOWS THAT HE
CANNOT CONTINUE TO GOVERN TURKEY
THE WAY HE LIKES SO LONG AS IT'S
DEMOCRATIC.
AND THAT IS WHY IT LOOKS TO ME
AND TO OTHER ANALYSTS THAT HE'S
TAKING STEPS TO END DEMOCRACY IN
TURKEY.
FOR EXAMPLE, HE'S JUST SAID THAT
THE STATE OF EMERGENCY PUT IN
PLACE AFTER THE COUP WILL BE
EXTENDED INDEFINTELY UNTIL THERE
IS PEACE AND WELFARE IN TURKEY.
HOW DO YOU MEASURE PEACE AND
WELFARE?
SO, THAT MEANS IT'S BASICALLY
PERMANENT.
AND FOR THE 40 MILLION TURKS WHO
OPPOSE HIM, THAT'S NOT
ACCEPTABLE.
SO, I FEAR THAT IF HE ENDS
DEMOCRACY, THERE'S DEFINITELY A
RISK FOR THAT HALF THAT OPPOSES
HIM WHO WILL NOW THINK THAT THEY
CANNOT VOTE HIM OUT.
THAT SOME ELEMENTS OF THEM,
MAYBE YOUTH ELEMENTS OF THEM,
MIGHT EVEN RADICALIZE.
SO, TURKEY'S POLARIZATION COULD
EVEN GET WORSE AS A RESULT OF
THESE POLICIES.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW MUCH OF
ERDOGAN'S POSITION IS BOLSTERED
BY THE CRUCIAL NATURE OF TURKEY
IN THE FIGHTING IN SYRIA OR IN
THE MIDDLE EAST?
I MEAN, IT SEEMS THAT THERE'S
SOME PRETTY HUGE ALLIES THAT ARE
COUNTING ON TURKEY'S SUPPORT.
>> I THINK ERDOGAN BASICALLY
KNOWS THAT THE UNITED STATES AND
NATO ALLIES NEED TURKEY TO
CONTINUE TO FIGHT ISIS, AND HE
BASICALLY GETS A HALL PASS IN
THAT REGARD.
DESPITE HIS DEMOCRATIC
TRANSGRESSIONS, HE'S STILL
INVITED TO SUMMITS AND
MEETINGS.
BUT THERE'S ONLY SO MUCH TURKEY
CAN CONTINUE WITH THIS POLARIZED
ENVIRONMENT, EVEN THOUGH ERDOGAN
MIGHT RECEIVE OPEN ARMS FROM
OUTSIDE DIGNITARIES, BECAUSE OF
THE FACT THAT SOME OF THE
OPPOSITION GROUPS ARE VIOLENT
AND RADICAL AND, IN FACT,
TERRORISTS SUCH AS THE KURDISH
GROUPS, P.K.K.
AND THEREFORE, GOING FORWARD,
HE'S GOING TO HAVE A VIOLENT
CHALLENGE COMING FROM THE RIGHT.
AND HE HAS ADVERSARIES IN THE
REGION, INCLUDING RUSSIA, WHOM
HE OPPOSES IN SYRIA, WHICH HAS
HISTORIC LINKS TO KURDISH GROUPS
WHICH COULD EASILY UNDERMINE
HIM GOING FORWARD.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT, SONER
CAGAPTAY FROM THE WASHINGTON
INSTITUTE FOR NEAR EAST POLICY
AND THE AUTHOR OF THE NEW BOOK,
"THE NEW SULTAN: ERDOGAN AND THE
CRISIS OF MODERN TURKEY."
THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
IT'S A PLEASURE.